README.md, before:

# Bollito SC pipeline

[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/bu_cnio/bollito/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/bu_cnio/bollito/commits/master)

## Test data

The system is pre-configured to run an example based on sample data available from 10X Genomics. The required datasets can be found at these URLS. Please update the "units.tsv" file to point at the data as needed.

* https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets/3.0.0/neuron_10k_v3
* https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets/3.0.0/heart_10k_v3

## FASTQ\_SCREEN

The pipeline can optionally run FASTQ\_SCREEN to check the samples for contamination.

To disable it use the config file option ```config["rules"]["fastq_screen"]["disabled"]```.

Config file pointing to indexes should be placed in a directory named ```config['rules']['fastq_screen_indexes']['outdir']/FastQ_Screen_Genomes```.

If the rule is enabled and no config file provided, default indexes will be downloaded using the command ```fastq_screen --get_genomes```.

Commit message:

Add new features (inc. Velocyto, Seurat Wrappers).
 - Integration of all samples using Seurat guidelines.
 - Trajectory inference analysis using Slingshot.
 - Functional analysis using Vision.
 - RNA velocity analysis using Velocyto and Seurat Wrappers.
 - Metadata adding function per sample.
 - New normalization method implemented (SCTransform).
 - STAR version updated to 2.7.3a.
 - Genes filter.
 - Improved clustering and clustering validation using silhouette scores tables.

README.md, after:

# Bollito SC pipeline

[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/bu_cnio/bollito/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/bu_cnio/bollito/commits/master)

## Introduction
Bollito is a Snakemake pipeline that performs the main steps of a single-cell RNA-seq analysis (QC, alignment, quantification and cell specific QC) and other kind of single-cell related analysis (clustering, diferential expresion, trajectory inference and functional analysis).

This pipeline uses some state-of-the-art tools in single-cell RNA-seq field like Seurat, STARsolo, Vision or Slingshot. Most of the Snakemake rules are executed through Conda environments so complex dependences are not a problem. 

## Requirements

## Usage 

## Pipeline steps

## Test data

The system is pre-configured to run an example based on sample data available from 10X Genomics. The required datasets can be found at these URLS. Please update the "units.tsv" file to point at the data as needed.

* https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets/3.0.0/neuron_10k_v3
* https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets/3.0.0/heart_10k_v3

## FASTQ\_SCREEN

The pipeline can optionally run FASTQ\_SCREEN to check the samples for contamination.

To disable it use the config file option ```config["rules"]["fastq_screen"]["disabled"]```.

Config file pointing to indexes should be placed in a directory named ```config['rules']['fastq_screen_indexes']['outdir']/FastQ_Screen_Genomes```.

If the rule is enabled and no config file provided, default indexes will be downloaded using the command ```fastq_screen --get_genomes```.
